### Q: How did our Solar System form?

[In the beginning](https://www.thunderbolts.info/wp/2020/02/21/solar-nebula-hypothesis-ready-for-historys-dustbin-space-news/), our Sun and the planet Jupiter were alone as a binary system. Then, an L-type brown dwarf known as Saturn and it's 200+ moons arrive. Saturn and Jupiter as well as the larger moons of Saturn then become entangled in a co-linear orbit. This co-linear configuration arrayed the planets **in series** connected like batteries by their north and south poles. In this period, the moons of Saturn (including Mars, Venus, and Earth) enjoyed a [Golden Age](http://www.thunderbolts.info/mmarchives/080401_tbp02_gad.htm) while the co-linear planetary configuration showered them with a safe carbohydrate energy known as "Mana" that promoted life to form in abundance. This age and configuration are depicted in the Christian Bible as the "Garden of Eden". A similar or identical story of a golden age can be found in [every culture on earth](http://www.thunderbolts.info/mmarchives/080401_tbp02_gad.htm). The mythical Island of Atlantis appeared at the very center of our North Pole, and fixed above it was our God and Creator: The planet Saturn. The Bible is a real story, just heavily redacted.

### Q: Humanity was then cast out of the Garden of Eden?

Correct! It's natural, and happens all the time. When Earth was cast out of Saturn's Garden of Eden into cataclysm, Humanity was struck with a death and darkness that lasted decades. Without the co-linear configuration holding Atlantis in place, it vanishes into the Earth. Our ancestors did not understand why Saturn/El would punish them so. They didn't know at the time but it wasn't God's punishment at all. Instead, being cast out of the Garden of Eden was like a bird being pushed out of a nest by it's parent. It's 100% natural. However, there were some humans (Nimrod etc) who suggested they could get past the darkness by building a tower that goes past the cloud layer.

### Q: The Tower of Babel was real??

Back then, Earth's gravity was 1/3rd what it is today but gradually increasing, and there were many Giants, so building the tower was easy. The project was successful at first, and allowed the new religious class called 'scientists' to peer through the cloud layer and spot their old God El/Saturn which they called Moloch. They noticed the Black Cube/Hexagon on Moloch's North Pole and thus began to wear [Yarmulke](https://bloominpromotions.com/product/spy/) with the 6-sided Star of Moloch on their north poles (their heads). As a result of this discovery, the **class system** was created with those at the top holding secret knowledge, and with those at the bottom slaves to that knowledge. Eventually this project failed, as everyone knows, but it wasn't by God's hand. It was 100% natural. The tower created a circuit connection between the ground and the upper layer of the electromagnetic field of the earth. This connection brought down massive energies along the sides of the tower. All humans within the building or on the staircases were hit with this energy could no longer function, think, talk, or remember anything. The same effect can be achieved in a lab by applying electrodes to a human head. Therefore humans fled the tower in all directions feeling once again smitten by their Creator. Great Job there, Nimrod! This is the first reason the tower failed and the primary reason centralized language became splintered on Earth. The second reason the tower failed is that gravity increased on Earth, and the tower collapsed from within. The secret society cultivated at the top of the Tower of Babel also fled the tower taking their knowledge and culture with them.  
All Saturn-worshiping secret societies that exist today still attempt to impose upon the rest of the species (us) the class-system rules they created at the top of the [Tower of Babel](i/saturn/tower_of_babel.jpg).

### Q: How do we know all this?

Every [civilization](https://thunderbolts.info/tpod/2005/arch05/050509plasma-mythology.htm) on Earth has made monuments to events that occurred in our shared history. The similarities between these monuments (built by independent civilizations that typically never met each-other) provides the strongest evidence of the actual age and history of the Earth.  

_However, the age of the Earth **cannot** be determined in Sun-Years._
